>> LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of
"Gaiam Inspirations,"
and we are broadcasting
from the Conscious Life Expo
here in Los Angeles.
Many of you know
Dannion Brinkley
as the guy who was struck
by lightning three times
and lived to tell about it.
He documents these
near-death experiences
in his book series
"Saved By the Light,"
"At Peace in the Light,"
and "Secrets of the Light."
And then since then, Dannion
has embraced the ability
to facilitate people
during their last weeks,
their last days, their
last moments of their life.
He has been a hospice
volunteer for 30 years,
and he has assisted hundreds of
thousands of people transition
from this life into another.
So my biggest question for you,
Mr. Brinkley, what have you
learned?
What have you learned
from the bedside
of hundreds of
thousands of people?
>> DANNION BRINKLEY:
Well, thousands.
>> LISA: Thousands.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
I think what we take away,
like, I'm 64 years old.
I was born in 1950, and I grew
up just like any other American
and served in the Marine Corps.
And one day I'm
talking on the phone,
and I discovered that
we are great, powerful,
and mighty spiritual beings.
We have dignity, we have
direction, and we have purpose.
The only thing that could
ever go wrong in your life
is somehow you've
allowed something
to affect your dignity.
OK?
And with that
piece of knowledge,
Lisa, and to watch
how what we now
know to be the near-death
experience-- remember,
I had this puppy when Raymond
had not written his book.
The only reason
I'm famous today is
I saw what appeared
to be future events.
But Raymond Moody, who wrote
the book "Life After Life," who
coined the term
near-death experience,
was a medical student in the
hospital they brought me into.
Patient unconscious, patient
not breathing, no EKG.
>> LISA: And you were one of the
subjects that he was studying.
>> BRINKLEY: And I became one of
those subjects because he heard
about it, it moved
through the hospital,
and he heard about it.
And I came into this knowing
what a near-death experience
was once I met Raymond.
I had this experience
with no way to look at it.
And what I ran into, Lisa,
was I was going crazy
until I met Raymond.
Because how can you come
back in a body of pain?
Struck by lightning,
dead for 28 minutes,
completely paralyzed
for six days,
partially paralyzed
for seven months,
two years of learning
to walk and feed myself,
and moving in
dimensional realities
that I have no earthly idea
what this was, how it worked,
but I could see
patterns and events.
And then when I met Raymond, I
found a certain peaceful place
that that was the first
struck by lighting
near-death experience.
I found a peaceful place.
But what I found,
more important,
was there were some
really great people
out there who had
great stories, and they
were stories that were so
spiritually inspirational.
And yet they couldn't tell them
because they'd been browbeaten
or they'd been fundamentalized
or the Catholics told them
they were going to hell,
and the Jewish mother
thinks they need to
be a doctor, and god.
So what happened was somebody
had to defend those people.
Somebody had to say, OK,
somebody better take up
that mantle and give
that voice to people
whose stories need to be told.
>> LISA: So because you
went through this traumatic
experience not once, not
twice, but three times--
>> BRINKLEY: I had it coming.
Everything that's ever
happened to me, I deserved it.
>> LISA: Why do you say that?
>> BRINKLEY: Well, because I do.
I got away with something.
And sooner or later
the spiritual laws,
as your knowledge of them
grows, you become responsible.
>> LISA: Tell me about that.
You lived a prior life,
a whole prior life.
You were in the military?
>> BRINKLEY: United
States Marine Corps.
But that had nothing
to do-- that was just
another outlet for insanity.
I didn't have a
religious belief.
I grew up in fundamentalism.
Everybody goes to hell
where I came from, OK?
Done deal.
And I'd been told I was
going to hell since I
was five years old,
because I basically
didn't give a damn if
the sun didn't come up.
I just was not interested in
the world that was around me,
and I thought it was
surface and superficial.
This is as a kid.
>> LISA: Why so much--
was it hate or was it just
intolerance?
>> BRINKLEY: I think it's
just I was probably a prick
in the last life.
I don't know.
Maybe I got this just
nature of prickdom.
But nonetheless, it's
my basic characteristic,
and so I gave up religion.
It was nonsense.
It's the '60s, OK?
And what we always say what we
dreamed of doing in the '60s
we in my generation are
dedicated to achieving it
in our 60s.
>> LISA: Yeah?
>> BRINKLEY: And
that's my battle cry.
>> LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: So I went into--
played sports because I was
going to get laid on Friday
if I scored a touchdown.
And this was me.
Because I'm redneck, I
don't have any cosmic ideas
about anything, and
it's stupid anyway,
and blah, blah, blah, blah.
And that nature is the nature
that served in the Marine Corps
and operated in that proxy
war world of the United
States and those issues.
And then I'm talking on
the telephone one Wednesday
afternoon in a
thunderstorm, and it hit me
in the side of the head,
and it went down my spine.
It welded the nails of the
heels of my shoes to the floor.
It throws me in the air, and
it suspends me in the air,
and it slams me back
down on that bed.
I cannot see.
I am burning, and I am on
fire like battery acid.
I cannot move.
As a Marine, I could not
get to a defensive position.
I could not move to find a
corner or a weapon or something
in a defensive position.
And this is how
my mindset works.
And then all of a sudden,
I lift up out of my body.
[SIGHS]
>> LISA: Much better
from up there, huh?
>> BRINKLEY: Honey, it did
not matter where I was,
it was better than
where I just left.
>> LISA: [LAUGHING]
>> BRINKLEY: OK?
That's all my mind
was thinking, Lisa.
Whoa.
I can see.
Everything's calm.
We're going along good.
I look down and see my
body across the bed,
and I'm no more interested in
that than the man in the moon.
I wasn't interested in that.
>> LISA: Did you feel
that expansiveness?
Did you go down the
tunnel, the light?
What happens?
>> BRINKLEY: That's after.
First you move.
This happens to everybody.
>> LISA: Mm hmm.
>> BRINKLEY: So
here's the fun part.
This is the takeaway.
Nobody's going to die.
It's not going to happen.
>> LISA: Ever?
>> BRINKLEY: Never.
>> LISA: You never die?
>> BRINKLEY: Well, if you're
on stage as a comedian,
you die probably a
little bit every night.
Or if you were
doing an interview
and it's a damn dead
interview, OK, you
probably die a little bit too--
>> LISA: Die inside, yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: --hoping that
fool is going to say something,
right, or hoping I
don't embarrass you, OK?
But other than that, the
spiritual part of this
is we're energetic.
And because of quantum-- now I'm
leaping, but because of quantum
dynamics and where
science and spirituality
are merging-- whether they like
it or not, they're merging.
>> LISA: They always have.
I had the same
experience in an accident
and completely lifted out my
body, saw the whole scene,
felt everyone's feelings,
could feel their emotions,
never wanted to go back.
It was so blissful.
And I remember it
like it was yesterday.
>> BRINKLEY: Oh,
it doesn't go away.
>> LISA: Crystal clear, yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: But then you'd
never have that magnificent
husband and that beautiful child
and some of the best friends
and people who love you
more than life itself.
>> LISA: That's
what pulled me back.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
>> LISA: I could see the cord
attached to the husband I
hadn't even married yet and
had actually broken up with
at the time.
>> BRINKLEY: Well,
he had it coming.
>> LISA: So you went through
this experience of this
incredible oneness.
How did that lead you to
the bedside of hospice?
How did you bridge that gap?
What happened between those
two major parts of your life?
>> BRINKLEY: Let's look at
it from a non-spiritual side.
>> LISA: OK.
>> BRINKLEY: Let's completely
take Dandy Dan out of it,
and let's look at it from
a jerk's point to view.
>> LISA: OK.
>> BRINKLEY: OK.
When you lift out
of your body and you
observe that you're no longer
a part of that system--
I went and actually studied
the system once I got
finished going through
the experience--
when you hear the chimes and
you go down the tunnel, you
become-- myself, because
mine was a combat mentality,
I'm looking at everything
to see what it is
and how to position
myself and where safety is
and where my thought patterns
are, this being of light that
comes.
But what happens is you
will see your entire life
pass before you in a
360-degree panorama called
the panoramic life review.
That's going to happen.
It's going to be broken
down into these components,
that you're going to see it from
a second person point of view
so that when you look
at that point of view,
you're going to see how
close you've got to the goals
you've set for yourself.
You realize instantly that
nothing you've ever done
was wrong.
It just, in the
section of the goals
you set for you to
achieve in this lifetime,
you didn't get but
this close, you know?
But it's where you grow from.
Then you're going to literally
become every person that you
ever encountered,
and you're going
to feel the direct results of
your interaction between you
and that person.
Well, that's when
I decided I wasn't
going to hit myself
in the face anymore.
Because if I'd gone
through this system
and it showed me what's
really going to happen,
I had better change
at that moment.
>> LISA: So anybody that
you ever impacted negatively
or positively, you
felt those feelings.
>> BRINKLEY: I became them.
>> LISA: You became them.
>> BRINKLEY: OK.
Well, say it didn't have any
spirituality to it at all.
>> LISA: Right.
>> BRINKLEY: That was it.
>> LISA: That was
all you needed.
>> BRINKLEY: That's all.
And then the point was this.
Judgment.
If the divine or if God
could not come today
and God sent you, in the
life you just reviewed,
what difference did
you and God make?
Now that is as plain,
Lisa, and as simple English
as this is what's
going to happen.
You either embrace
it or you don't.
But for me, it doesn't matter.
I've been through it
three times and been
with 2,000 people studying this.
This is what's going to happen.
The takeaway from what we're
trying to establish here
is a reality perspective
based on how far away you
are from a male being 76.4
and a female being 81.2.
>> LISA: Meaning?
>> BRINKLEY: And ever how
far you are from that date is
the measurement of you paying
attention to what I'm saying.
>> LISA: So being your end of
life, the life expectancy--
>> BRINKLEY: Of you as
a male and a female.
OK?
So what I decided to do with me,
and if God couldn't come today
and God sent me and the
life I just reviewed,
what difference did
me and God make?
Well, we were going
to have some fun.
>> LISA: [LAUGHING]
>> BRINKLEY: If I didn't
die, and I didn't go to hell,
you can kiss my ass.
OK?
>> LISA: Because you're
here to make a big,
big impact at this point?
>> BRINKLEY: Well, no.
Mine was just to
defend those people who
didn't have the confidence and
the belief in the event that
happened to them.
OK?
I was going to
defend them, and I
was going to create a
portal that if you think
those people are crazy--
it's oxygen brain
deprivation or it's
temporal lobe seizures
or it's some kind of shock
or anesthesia reaction.
I believe
unequivocally that some
of those times that's
exactly what's happening.
There's too much science
to not benefit that
as a possible theory in cases
I have personally heard myself.
>> LISA: Right.
Yes.
>> BRINKLEY: But if you think
that that's all there is,
I'm going to deal with you.
>> LISA: There is
no possible way.
The stories are
too coincidental.
They're too miraculous.
>> BRINKLEY: They have
their basic anomalies
in the structure.
I've been through three of them.
What do I care
whether anybody thinks
that there's such thing as
a near-death experience?
Anybody who thinks
that I don't think it
based on my life
history is an idiot.
And if I didn't believe it
based on my life history,
I would be an idiot.
>> LISA: Why do you think it had
to happen to you three times?
Have you ever
thought about that?
>> BRINKLEY: You
know what, Lisa?
I always have a joke about it.
Because when you sit
alone by yourself
and it's structured
in such a way
that I've watched it unfold,
I saw it 38 years ago,
and I've just watched it,
and I've done what I thought
was my part.
No matter what the cost was, I
did what I thought was my part.
And I always tell
people-- they say, Dan,
why do you think
you were chosen?
I say, well, I know that answer.
They were desperate.
>> LISA: [LAUGHS]
>> BRINKLEY: They had
completely run out of messiahs.
>> LISA: You were the closest
to the lightning at the time.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah,
they said, OK, listen,
let's go kill Dannion, and
let's pile this stuff off on him
and see what that
jackass is made of.
And so when I look, my
relationship with the divine,
when you see me and you
know me, when people say,
Dannion, how are
you doing today?
I'm happy.
I woke up and there was air.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> BRINKLEY: After
that, we were cooking.
>> LISA: [LAUGHS]
>> BRINKLEY: What's up, God?
Let's party today.
You know?
So what I decided to do, I said,
OK, if me and God couldn't come
today, huh, what
are we going to do?
Well, what is my skill set?
I'm not afraid of death.
I understand it.
I can look at it and
know what's next,
and I can watch
the life as I watch
the things that people need.
Everybody needs someone
to understand them
and to appreciate and admire
something in their life
and maybe, if graced to be,
that they inspired something.
And so I know how to
bring that out of a person
so that they can hear
themselves talk about the value.
The next thing they need
is a structure of closure.
And how you structure
closure is giving value
to things in your life and
allowing them to tell it,
because, really, they're
internally processing.
And next is the
structure of permission.
When you have those three
systems in place, which
is what I call the
Twilight Brigade--
I studied this for so long, and
I've been dead so many times,
and I've heard every
story there is.
>> LISA: I'm sure.
>> BRINKLEY: And I've watched
people go from this world
to the next and looked
at the family dynamics,
and I created the
Twilight Brigade.
And it's a weekend
project that people
can go on the Twilight
Brigade or Dannion and see,
and it's about taking
the stuff that I
talk about to the street.
I don't just talk this story.
I go do this story.
>> LISA: Yeah, you do.
>> BRINKLEY: And why?
>> LISA: Well, no, one
of my questions is why,
when you live your life
not being afraid of death,
as every American is the number
one fear is the fear of dying--
>> BRINKLEY: No,
public speaking.
>> LISA: Public
speaking and then dying.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
Public speaking's number one.
>> LISA: And then taxes.
But if you live
your life that way,
how do you live differently?
Do you live challenging death?
Do you live not caring?
What is it like to live
without a fear of death?
>> BRINKLEY: You learn
the art of appreciation.
>> LISA: Instead.
>> BRINKLEY: I have
to lose 20 pounds.
And when I look at myself
in the mirror and I say,
I have to lose 20
pounds, the first thing
I think about is how many
lobsters I ate to get there.
>> LISA: [LAUGHING]
>> BRINKLEY: OK?
And did I enjoy getting
that 20 pounds, OK?
And if I did, OK.
It's no problem.
And if I didn't, then I
will detox along with it.
I will take a detox
and drink, because I
try to keep that harmony
and balance in myself.
So when you're not
afraid of death,
it's always just about
internalizing you.
And when you're not
afraid of death,
if God couldn't come today and
God sent me, what difference
in the life I just reviewed
that me and God made?
Me and my God, we
was at the bedside.
We was holding
those coming home.
Where two or more gather in my
name, so shall I be among you.
OK.
>> LISA: I will be there.
>> BRINKLEY: I like
that kind of talk.
I like it when
Jesus gets into it
and Jehovah and
Krishna and Allah.
Come on.
Come on down.
So I get a chance to know that
I'm going to be that person
and that I'm bringing that
sense of safety and comfort
and continuity into their life.
And I'm there in grace
and honor and in service
to give them the art form that
I know that you go through.
I know how you
live here, how you
go through that, how you get
over there, how you come back
from there, you come back
through that, and you get up.
And I know that as well as
anybody who lives on the Earth,
except maybe one yogi in
the mountains in Nepal
living in a cave
with a bearskin on.
That fool might be out there.
>> LISA: All right.
Let me ask you about the
idea of all the stories
that you've heard what
is the most common thing
that you hear people say
when they're facing death
or they're facing the end of
life or those last moments?
What is it that they
regretted the most?
>> BRINKLEY: A lot of times
it's not about regret.
It's never listening.
It's never caring enough to
participate in a person's life,
and that you could see that
you instilled loneliness.
When you look at the
subpsychological nature
of whatever the
conversation is, Lisa,
and it's not for this
show, I can watch people
from a place that's empathic.
I have been there.
You can say I know how you feel.
Well, you don't know
how anybody feels.
Anytime people says
I know how you feel,
that's a fool talking.
But I've been close
enough to understand
where you are as
you're emotionally
structuring through it, OK?
What people want to do
is about being lonely.
And they blame
themselves for what
happened in incidents in
their life, especially
when their love was
emotionally challenged.
Why did he do this?
Why did my daughter act crazy?
Why are they fighting?
Who's going to take
care of my husband?
care of my wife?
OK?
And then what we
call in my world
the California sisters--
in South Carolina,
there would be a sister
who lived in California,
and she'd fly back
into South Carolina.
And this sister's
been with their mother
for two years, all the
way through the part.
Then the California sister comes
in and yells at the doctors
and goes through all that.
We have to save her.
Because it's about her guilt,
and it's about her being
felt alone or left or abandoned.
Most people in this structured
age group and in your age group
deal with their parents
leaving them as abandonment.
Then it has nothing to
do with that person.
It has to do with the inner
nature of the ego of the child
or parent or friend.
>> LISA: And the unresolved
emotions and conversations.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
Of their own.
Everybody wishes they
had five more minutes.
I created the Twilight
Brigade to allow those
five more minutes.
>> LISA: Tell me about
Twilight Brigade.
What can you do when
you participate in it?
How does that work?
>> BRINKLEY: It's easy.
First you have to realize
you're ready to face death,
good, bad, or indifferent.
So then a person has to
psychologically structure
a reason or a rationale
to go forth in it.
>> LISA: OK.
OK.
>> BRINKLEY: This is how the
mental human being thinks, OK?
You have a mental human
being called the physical.
Then you have an
ethereal perspective.
Emotions are opinions.
People think emotions
are some cosmic value.
It's an attitude you
have about something
and how much you
like it or don't
like it is what
creates emotions.
>> LISA: Emotions are opinions.
I love that.
>> BRINKLEY: You either laugh
or you cry in an emotion,
or somebody hurts your feelings.
But you had to
structure the psychology
to have your feelings hurt.
So when somebody tells me that
it emotionally upset them,
that's never true.
You're mad about
something or you're
happy about something
or something didn't
happen that you
thought you deserved.
That's where the
emotion comes from.
I don't care.
Now give me a structure
that you believe
that I can't fit whatever
you're emotionally upset
about within that criteria.
Fill in the blanks.
I'll always be right.
I might miss 1 out of 50.
But you learn it in end of life.
You watch people in
the end of their life
and look at what their crisis
are and what the decisions are,
and what you do is you
realize that way up here, 20
years from the dance,
I have the opportunity
to take a look at those
things, those events
and change my life now.
Because it changed my life.
>> LISA: The way
you lived your life.
What do you say to
someone that you
come across that is
being a jerk or who
is being that prick, as
you called it earlier?
What do you say to that
person who's really an abuser
or is treating somebody
completely unfairly?
Do you get into their face?
>> BRINKLEY: No.
>> LISA: Why not?
>> BRINKLEY: Because, first,
it's not about me, OK?
It's not about me.
It's about me caring
about the person that
has six months or less.
I'm so specific, Lisa.
People think I'm crazy, but
I'm just like a laser beam.
>> LISA: OK.
>> BRINKLEY: I focus.
It's never about me.
It's about that person.
Whatever's going around
it, I will deal with it.
I will deal with it
in such a way that
honors whatever that person's
reasons is for doing it,
because maybe the woman
beat him when he was child,
and maybe now is his
first chance to get even.
>> LISA: Right.
>> BRINKLEY: I can't
get into all that.
I just have to neutralize
it as much as I can.
Now I will be honest
enough to tell you
that I had a lady that was 89
years old, and she had cancer,
and it had moved
throughout the body.
And she told me one time
that her son would lock her
in the closet for when the
postman came so he could get
her OxyContin, and
she would go all month
without pain medicine, an 89
years old lady with cancer
and her grandson.
So I was over there
that day sitting
in the kitchen when he came
in and put her in the closet,
because you have to sign for it.
And I beat his ass really bad.
>> LISA: Oh, wow.
>> BRINKLEY: So me telling
you my heroic version of not
getting into the issues--
>> LISA: Yeah.
It's human.
>> BRINKLEY: --there's
still another side of me.
Hello.
>> LISA: It's still there.
But when you see something like
that being done that's wrong,
I mean, you know
that that person
is going to suffer in the
afterlife anyway, obviously.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah, but if you're
going to be every person that
you've ever encountered,
if you're going to be them,
I forgive them.
I just try to neutralize it.
But why I like forgiveness is
why should I get between you
and what you got coming?
>> LISA: Right.
Right.
>> BRINKLEY: So here in my life,
I created the Twilight Brigade
so that people could be the
difference that God makes, OK?
And it's a
compassionate therapy,
and it's a trained expert field.
>> LISA: Wow.
>> BRINKLEY: You are a
professional end of life.
If God couldn't come
today and God sent you,
in the life you just reviewed
what difference did God make?
Well, for those who
are just about to face
that system and that
tunnel, let me train you
how to be at the bedside
to give them those places
to structure transition
from this world to the next.
We've trained
almost 6,000 people.
This technique is the greatest
techniques put together.
It's better than the
Tibetan Books of the Dead.
It's not full of--
>> LISA: Well, it's
your experience.
It's full of your
experience and how
you are carrying that forward
and teaching other people
to do the same
thing that you are.
You can't be at the bedside
of every single person.
>> BRINKLEY: But Lisa, in this
new book that Kathryn and I are
writing, it's called "10
Things to Know Before You Go."
>> LISA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: So I went to
Mickey Maudlin at HarperOne,
and I said, Mickey, I'm
tired of being dead.
Let's write a book
about being alive.
>> LISA: Tired of being
the dead guy, huh?
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
OK.
Let's write about being alive.
So I said, listen, let's
call it "10 Things to Know
Before You Go."
>> LISA: OK.
OK.
>> BRINKLEY: First question--
ask yourself this question--
what's the number one cause of
death in America and most other
countries?
>> LISA: A heart attack?
>> BRINKLEY: Then you turn
to the next page and it says,
no matter what you
thought the answer is,
the number one cause
of death is birth.
>> LISA: It's going to happen.
That is a good point, yes.
>> BRINKLEY: Then you turn
to the next page and it says,
remember, if you're
breathing, you're leaving.
And if you just took a
breath, this book is for you.
>> LISA: So what does it
teach us on how to live life,
"10 Things to Know
Before You Go"?
>> BRINKLEY: Oh, well,
that's in the book.
>> LISA: Talk to me
about a few of them.
>> BRINKLEY: Well, the most
important one is what do you
appreciate?
>> LISA: Oh.
You mean the simple
things, life, family?
>> BRINKLEY: When you see your
life pass before you, Lisa,
what always amazes me about
people when I tell you
you're going to see your life
pass before you in a 360-degree
hologram and you don't
think that for a minute,
you just listen to the
words, it makes you dumb.
And if you're not going to
watch it from a second person
point of view based on
this scale and structure,
I don't want to be arrogant, but
people are missing the point.
And when you get to
the fact that you're
going to be everybody that
you've ever encountered,
then what happens then
is that's really true.
>> LISA: What do you live
your life differently by?
How do you look at life in
terms of your gratitude?
What are the gratitude
points of your life?
What are you grateful for?
>> BRINKLEY: Air.
>> LISA: Air.
Not the laughter of
your babies or anything?
It's just breathing.
>> BRINKLEY: Ah, air.
Because if I wake up
and I'm breathing,
I have every opportunity.
I have every
privilege that I would
hope that an unseen force--
that automatically--
that my body is structured to
automatically create my ability
to draw in air.
Once that moment is in place,
I got to feed the thing,
and I have to set my
goals and my intentions,
and I have to serve the
highest good that I think,
that no vet need die
alone in this country.
And that's what I have to do.
And then I have a job.
>> LISA: What about the laws
that are being cut off and how
the vets are being
treated these days?
Doesn't that get to you?
>> BRINKLEY: In a lot of ways.
But you know what?
It's the system I have, OK?
And as I watch health
care, you know, Lisa,
like everybody, that for 38
years, 36 years on the circuit,
I've talked about that
the battle for the souls
of human consciousness would
be fought in health care.
I realized that when it
went to the Supreme Court
that that vision from
1975 and the chip
implants and the
Arab-Israeli position, all
that stuff I wrote about
in "Saved By the Light,"
it's all come true.
>> LISA: Right.
>> BRINKLEY: I watch to
see what happens to Jordan,
because it said Jordan would
disappear almost as a nation.
I watch that, and
so I watched where
the Palestinian
settlement will come.
>> LISA: These were the
insights that came--
>> BRINKLEY: These were
the boxes of knowledge
in the books.
See, the thing that
also made Dannion--
I didn't know when you'd had
a near-death experience you
wasn't supposed to
tell everything.
Well, you know, because
I'd never had one,
and Raymond taught well, and
he could probe with questions.
He's a good
interviewer, like you,
and he would probe
with his questions,
and I would tell him stuff.
I told him things that
I saw that I believed
would happen in the future.
When they happened, the first
one was, like, four years.
And Raymond called me, OK?
>> LISA: Because
he had the notes.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
He'd written it down.
Then Chernobyl and then--
>> LISA: You saw all that?
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
And I was there.
It was completely different
from the spiritual place.
It was a place that I
was participating in,
because I knew that
would happen in the life
that I would have back here.
That's when I began
to suspect they
were going to send me back.
>> LISA: Ah.
>> BRINKLEY: See?
I never heard enough near-death
experiences before '75,
but a heard a bunch
of them after '75.
>> LISA: Yeah?
Do you have any
idea of how you're
going to die or do you care?
>> BRINKLEY: OK.
Well, here's what I hope.
I hope that they're going to
have a nuclear test somewhere
and I get to sit on the bomb.
Because I think
that vaporization
would be the ultimate rush.
If you're going
to go, you know--
>> LISA: Might as
well get there faster.
>> BRINKLEY: You
want to vaporize.
I thought about
this in the '90s.
I had all these friends, and
when I had the brain surgery--
in 1997, I had to
have brain surgery,
and they gave me an 8% chance
of surviving because I'd have
to either have brain surgery and
open heart surgery at the same
time, because I had
to have heart surgery,
remember struck by
lighting, damaged heart,
open heart surgery, then--
>> LISA: I remember
when you weren't well.
>> BRINKLEY: --brain surgery,
and then another massive heart
attack in 2000.
They just got to
keep me interested.
Whenever they want
to keep me focused,
they say, well, listen, let's
just kill him a little bit.
>> LISA: Just so
he can remember--
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
>> LISA: --what it feels like.
No, keep him on task.
>> LISA: And so in that place
where you are continually going
back through surgery
after surgery,
does it matter to you anymore?
Can you just go
into that surgery
knowing you're going to
get out and your life has
such a bigger
purpose and that you
don't need to fret about
things like that, do you?
>> BRINKLEY: Well, whatever
the system says is necessary.
If it's time for me to go,
then it's time for me to go.
>> LISA: So how do
we live our lives?
>> BRINKLEY: What you do is you
look at stuff you appreciate.
You quit being afraid.
You're not going to die.
It's not going to happen.
Well, quit hearing me say it.
Lock on.
If you're not going
to die, what happens?
>> LISA: What about
those who have died?
How do we bring them back,
if it really doesn't happen?
>> BRINKLEY: Who wants
to bring them back?
>> LISA: In our minds,
because we love them?
I see.
>> BRINKLEY: Why can't
you go over there to them?
We see channels and mediums, OK?
The system works both ways.
It's electrical.
Watch.
Let's say you're
looking at this.
You need symbology.
Water, that's the body.
How many people think
of the body as water?
But that's what it is.
It's 78% water.
You put some salt in it--
the body's salt water--
you've created a body.
You take a candle, a birthday
candle, red, orange, yellow,
blue, green, indigo, and violet.
In the flame of a candle is all
the seven rays of the spectrum.
Now you've created
an energetic body.
>> LISA: OK.
>> BRINKLEY: Now
you have a physical,
mental point of reference that
that spiritual being can slow
down and harmonize the
flame and the water.
So they can identify
as a body and they
can identity as an essence.
Then you just need
something that's theirs,
something that belongs to
them, because that still
holds their energy.
But they can also slow
down from over there,
come through the Akashic
Record, take on the personality,
and then re-enter this plane.
>> LISA: Ah.
>> BRINKLEY: OK?
How you would best do it,
for me if it's not funny
it's not spiritual.
If you want to talk to
me about God or anything
and you can't make me laugh,
you can take it somewhere else.
I don't need to hear it.
>> LISA: Doesn't
need to be serious.
>> BRINKLEY: If you've
been where I've been--
look at my personality, Lisa.
Do I seem like somebody
that's scared of dying
and who's done it
two or three times?
Listen, that crowd over
there is some party animals.
>> LISA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: And they're just
waiting for something to do.
And we just have to get
organized enough to get them
something to do, OK?
So if I'm going over
there, it doesn't really
matter to me as long as that--
if God couldn't come today
and God sent me, in the
life I just reviewed
what difference did
me and God make.
Any time I want to judge that,
any place that that becomes
the value of my life with
me knowing that, then it
doesn't matter when it happens.
>> LISA: That's how to
live a purpose-driven life.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah.
It really doesn't
matter what happens.
And look, I was in
hospice yesterday.
I came here, I do these
programs, but I make rounds.
I go visit guys I've
know for years and guys
I'm going to lose.
We have to find a cause
and a purpose in our life--
>> LISA: Every day, yes.
>> BRINKLEY: --that
drives the focus.
And that's why I wrote
"10 Things to Know."
What do you appreciate
about today?
What do you think someone
appreciated about you?
What did you admire today?
And what did you think somebody
may have admired about you?
And it's not an ego.
It's a value structure.
The greatest crisis we make as
mental spiritual beings is we
never place a value on our love.
Because in English love
is one stupid word, OK?
And it's tacky.
If you look at it in Greek,
it's three words, agape, eros,
and phila.
If you look at i in Hebrew,
it's eight or nine words.
Greek, it's three
or four structures,
but you have three basic words.
But love is a value of
expression that each of us
have.
And when you look at the
expression of that value
and you focus on
it and it begins
the measure of
what you appreciate
that in the value
of someone else,
and surely someone appreciated
in the value of you.
I'm a hospice volunteer, and
when people who do hospice work
come up to me then that
appreciation factor
is between the two of us.
We both do it.
>> LISA: So it is a dynamic,
ever-changing thing, love is.
It's not one word.
So we can have that dynamic,
ever-changing relationship
with our loved ones
here, not here.
>> BRINKLEY: Anywhere.
>> LISA: Anywhere.
>> BRINKLEY: If one of them
got abducted by an alien,
you can still do it.
>> LISA: You can still do it.
>> BRINKLEY: Because
of this simple fact.
Watch.
This is proven science, science.
We are all connected
in a matter,
a mass called dark matter.
The collider at
CERN in Switzerland
has proven the existence of
dark matter, the substance that
is calculated that the
universe is suspended in,
and it's modulated
it on a scale, OK?
That means that we live in
a multi-dimensional reality
and that everything
is connected.
>> LISA: Yes.
Yes.
>> BRINKLEY: That
was seven months ago.
Whose mindset changed
when that heard?
Mine did.
But whose mindset?
There is no way we're
not all connected.
It's not mythology anymore.
It's science.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> BRINKLEY: What did we change?
We're still dealing with a
religion 2,000 or 3,000 years
old instead of that we
are energetic beings.
>> LISA: Well, most things drive
us to think that we're separate
and that there's the
Democrats and the Republicans
and there's this
religion, that religion.
There's so much
separatism that's
fed to us on a daily basis.
>> BRINKLEY: Yeah,
but that's one source.
>> LISA: Yeah.
It permeates cultures, however.
>> BRINKLEY: But you know what?
Not if you see it
for what it is.
>> LISA: I think that we
have that ability to permeate
cultures with Gaiam TV.
>> BRINKLEY: I do too.
>> LISA: It's way
ahead of its time,
and it's catching up very fast.
But the idea of technology
is completely transforming.
The way that people
consume entertainment
is completely transforming
because it's informational.
And that, I think, is important.
I also, when I had that
near-death experience,
I felt that web
that you're talking
about, that interconnection.
And I was in
California at the time,
but Asia was
completely manifested
in front of my awareness.
It was a feeling that
it just encompassed me.
Anything that I
had, it wasn't even
a thought but of a conscious
wave was right there,
was right around me.
In that place of
interconnection,
everything manifests
completely instantly.
And then when we drop down
into these bodies, these three
dimensional bodies, why
does it takes so bloody long
and why is it such
a struggle to get
to that manifestation, Dannion?
What is that?
What is that physical thing?
>> BRINKLEY: It's a part of
the system, though, Lisa.
Watch.
You come down here
so you can polarize,
proton, electron, neutron, OK?
It's energetic.
Think about this.
The way we multiply amounts
in this physical reality
is using nothing.
>> LISA: What do you mean?
>> BRINKLEY: The 0.
>> LISA: Yeah?
>> BRINKLEY: OK?
>> LISA: Oh, right.
>> BRINKLEY: 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
How do you want to go
bigger than those numbers?
You use nothing.
>> LISA: You use 0.
>> BRINKLEY: Nothing.
>> LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: But when you think
of that from a spiritual point
of view, it makes sense.
It's just God having fun.
They're up there hanging
around, got nothing to do.
But when you come down here into
this level of consciousness,
you have to charge it.
It's got to be a
particle charge.
We have to have
an identity so we
see good and evil,
light and dark, male
and female, because
these are charges.
Everything works off
the ground, the neutral.
>> LISA: OK, right.
>> BRINKLEY: These are charges.
Because we are training to be
the difference that God makes.
That's the point.
If you know of
the divine essence
and you know that that essence
serves and empowers you, then
instead of you depending
on it for all the stuff
that you have already gained
the responsibility of doing,
like being a parent, then why
aren't you supportive of it,
as opposed to always demanding
it to save you and all of that?
So we come down in this level.
We slow down.
We use words and embraces.
OK?
Then we can measure
the distance between us
in charging, which are
feelings, so that you
can hug someone and
hold someone and smile
and laugh with a tear of joy.
It's still an emotion,
but it's an attitude.
Something made you happy.
And that we can interact because
so that when we go back to,
when we leave this class and
we go back to the other side,
we go to a higher
level of consciousness,
maybe a lower level
of consciousness
or maybe a lateral
level of consciousness
because spiritually
we can expand there.
There is no greater gift
that a spiritual being
could have that I have seen
that equals to breathing.
When you can breathe
and that you're
functioning in what you now
to know to be a finite system,
what power comes
with the ability
to accomplish something
in a designated period.
>> LISA: Wow.
>> BRINKLEY: I have this amount
of time to change the world.
Well, they better get ready, OK?
Because I'm coming to get 'em.
And what I want to do,
Lisa, is lay out, look,
people can pick
just subject matter.
I say that you
never left heaven.
I have two chapters
in the new book.
I say you never left heaven
and I put that argument up.
I'm going to win.
>> LISA: I hope so.
>> BRINKLEY: Oh, don't worry.
I'm going to win.
>> LISA: I hope so, because a
lot of people treat this like
it is hell, and they live that
way and create hell for other
people.
And I'd like you to be
able to explain to us
how we're living
this heaven on Earth.
>> BRINKLEY: Well,
we're manifesting it.
When you see a lot of this stuff
that goes on, you cut a deal.
Sometimes you might
need to suffer.
It sounds real good, but
you may need to suffer.
And it's not to say I'm not
supposed to react to it,
but you set up the system
when you come here.
You choose to come, and
you're chosen to come.
The most important
was that you were
chosen, that the divine believed
that there was no one better
than you being you to be born at
this particular group of people
based on to achieve
the divine role.
Then you get to
stick your nose in it
and maybe pick another parent
or a different relative
or a sibling or a different
time period over a couple years,
and then all of a
sudden you come.
You're born.
Because your trials and
triumphs are appreciated,
admired, or inspired by others.
Look at all of us.
We all appreciate something
or we feel good for them
or our heart goes out to 'em.
That's the linking
interconnection
between all of the divine.
>> LISA: Yeah, yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: See?
And once you begin to look at it
from this point of view, which
is where I look at it
from-- and you do, too.
You just don't live in
it every single day--
>> LISA: And every
single moment, yeah.
Yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: --then
is where we're going.
And so down here you get a
chance to express and feel
from a distance.
>> LISA: I loved your vision
of what you were talking about
on heaven or the other side as
being non-linear and how things
happen faster,
they happen slower,
they happen at different
rates at different times.
But we are in this
right now lifetime here
where things do happen
on a linear way.
Can you tell me how we can
access those other dimensions
without having to die?
Can we pull in those
non-linear dimensions
and create and manifest
on those other dimensions
without actually
losing the body?
>> BRINKLEY: Think of this.
If I told you about a
candle and a glass of water
with some salt in
it, and I told you
about having a possession
that was there,
I never gave you the punchline.
>> LISA: OK.
>> BRINKLEY: So now let
me give you the punchline.
>> LISA: OK.
>> BRINKLEY: Let's say
that this represented mom,
and then this represented a
candle to the flame of her
essence, and this was a
little brooch that she had.
I'd light that candle and I
would sit back consciously,
because I've created
this structure,
and I would think of the dumbest
thing that she ever caught me
at and the funniest thing
I ever heard her say.
>> LISA: OK.
>> BRINKLEY: And then when that
candle flickers and goes out,
I'm sitting in
the dark laughing,
and me and my mother are
together and me and my brothers
or me and my friends.
Because laughter moves
across all planes of power.
It's not sadness
that drives a focus.
It's laughter.
What did you celebrate
about that life?
What was celebrated?
Not I miss you.
And like a lady
asked me, she said,
"I want to know
if my-- I hate God
because God took
my mother from me."
And I said, "What
was wrong with her?"
"Oh, she had brain cancer
and uterine cancer and breast
cancer."
And I said, "You're mad that
she's not here with you,
and you're mad at God for that?"
I said, "Woman, you need to
learn about Jack Daniels."
>> LISA: [LAUGHS] You need
to loosen up a little.
>> BRINKLEY: Because
you might as well--
you either can rationalize
being crazy or you can blame it
on alcoholism, because
you crazy, bitch.
If my mother is in
heaven, she don't
need to come back here and
do a damn thing for me, OK?
Because let me
tell you something.
There's two things I
know about my mother.
There's not an angel in heaven
that has on dirty underwear.
I can guarantee if
my mother's there,
there's not an angel in heaven
that has on dirty underwear.
And I will guarantee you
there is not a speck of dust
anywhere on any table in heaven.
I can guarantee it.
>> LISA: She's still busy.
>> BRINKLEY: Momma, cook, girl.
Because if she's over
there working them,
I'm safe over here and I don't
have to deal with it, OK?
So when I think about
my mom and my dad,
and I was there
with them and I saw
what they were going
through and I was there
with them, the knowledge that
I have about life after death
and the place that I understand,
when it's about my own family
and I can watch the interaction
between us in those moments,
I don't think there's a
greater gift that I could
offer or expound or talk to
people about the Twilight
Brigade or what Dannion does
and how I am here to support you
and to support Gaiam
in any possible way
and how you look at the type of
programming that makes people
pay every month to
participate in a revolution
about not talking about
it but taking advantage
of the opportunities, both
electrically, spiritually,
quantum-ly, physics-ly,
and theory-ly,
not emotionally to react now.
And this is that opportunity.
>> LISA: Yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: 2014, it's a
pre-mid-term election cycle
that sets up the election of a
president of the United States
in three years that will direct
the destiny of this country.
It will take this country out
of it, it will keep it in it,
or it will take
it deeper into it.
That's what faces America.
That's what faces the world.
And that, coupled
with terror, creates
a fear-based controlled
reality that no one who's
ever been dead looks at
it as anything serious.
A terrorist is going to
come blow something up?
Well, where are they?
You know?
Come over to my house.
Bring a bag full
of nails, and make
sure you've got enough
TNT that we vaporize.
>> LISA: You're into
the vaporization.
I love the way that you
talk about your mother
and you don't cry and
that you don't mourn.
And I've learned that the
grief that one experiences
is more attached to the ego of--
>> BRINKLEY: Absolutely.
>> LISA: --missing that person.
You made that really clear.
>> BRINKLEY: That's
really good, though.
But see, Lisa, this
is the genius of you
as an interviewer,
because you picked up
a subtle thing, a subtle.
Grief.
Bereavement is a process.
It lasts about
three or four weeks.
The first week of the-- first
couple days of the third week,
it's like it happened again,
because everybody's gone.
You have to prepare the family,
and you have to call them.
You can't tell them that you
know they're freaking out,
but you have to call them and
you have to react to them.
I think that Gaiam
should teach this series.
I think Gaiam should come on
and let's teach a series about,
OK, here's where you are,
here's what's going on,
and here's why you have
to look at it this way.
Because three weeks after
it, you need to call them,
because they're going
to go through it
and that anxiety's
going to rush on them.
And if you're not
really careful,
bereavement, which is
a natural separation,
as we put it in our ideology
and social psychological
equativeness to each
other, becomes grief.
And grief can last a lifetime.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> BRINKLEY: And grief builds
guilt, and grief builds fear.
Why, in part, I created
the Twilight Brigade was,
hey, wait a minute, everybody.
I cannot have you lingering
in grief because you let that
affect your dignity.
And once your
dignity's affected,
you will not achieve
the goals you set out
to do based on you're a
great, powerful, and mighty
spiritual being with dignity,
direction, and purpose.
>> LISA: That's how you started.
Yes, absolutely.
I absolutely agree with you
that the largest segment
of the population
being over 65, we
need to learn how to
deal with departed loved
ones and our own
mortality more than ever.
There's more interest and
attention that needs to be paid
to that, because there isn't.
It's just how do you put
people in a rest home?
And what do you
do about the cost?
And that's all we're
hearing about, yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: But listen,
here's where you are.
That's not.
The point is this.
10,000 of us turn 65 every day.
How many of it is there?
There's 81 million of us.
That's a third of
the population.
>> LISA: Yes, it is.
>> BRINKLEY: That's a targeted
market and a demographic
that's us.
>> LISA: Yes, yes, absolutely.
>> BRINKLEY: So the programming
that you're trying to develop
and bring in these issues is
programs that you're dealing
with, programs that
I'm dealing with,
programs that a third of the
population is dealing with.
They don't have any
choice but to go there.
>> LISA: And they don't have
this kind of information on how
to deal with bereavement
the way that you teach.
You did, thank you, help us
with a passing loved one.
You helped my father-in-law
deal with his mother.
I was there at her bedside.
I was able to watch her
communicate with those angels
and listen to the
bells and the chimes
and talk to the loved
ones, and then she
would come back and
tell us about it.
It was the most beautiful
experience ever.
She died peacefully at home.
>> BRINKLEY: She passed.
>> LISA: Passed.
>> BRINKLEY: Way to
remember-- that word applied
to the spiritual ethereal
human being is not a word
that's a reality.
>> LISA: Ah.
>> BRINKLEY: You pass.
>> LISA: She passed.
She did.
She passed.
She just passed.
It wasn't painful.
It was at home.
It was just quiet.
She closed her eyes and just
went into another place.
She was visiting it in and out.
>> BRINKLEY: It
happens a lot of times.
>> LISA: Visiting it.
>> BRINKLEY: You have
what's called fey.
And it's an English
word, but it's
based on some Greek
thing from Asclepius.
I know the history of
it, but it's boring.
>> LISA: [LAUGHS] OK.
>> BRINKLEY: It's boring.
>> LISA: Yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: OK?
But you have fey.
Usually in the
last couple of days
a person will come
completely awake.
They'll be cognitive.
I don't care if they have 50
grams of morphine in then,
they'll become cognitive because
they come to say goodbye.
And that's when people say
mom's coming home and, god,
they're feeling better.
But we who do this know what's
happening, and what we do
is we get people
to pay attention.
OK, ask them what you can do.
Is there any
unresolved business?
Is there something you
want to thank them?
>> LISA: Great.
>> BRINKLEY: Is there
something you can say that you
appreciated about them, some
little small thing that they
may have did in your life that
you can come down and say,
you know, Aunt Jane or
mom, you may not remember.
When I was four years old,
you picked me up and set me
on the washing machine, and you
taped my little bloody foot,
and I never forgot that.
That is waves of power and
might to a person that's
looking for the
value in their life.
So I heard them when I see fey,
because that's the end of it.
>> LISA: You directed us to do
a celebration of her life while
she was still there
in front of her.
And whether or not she
-- we acknowledged--
she didn't acknowledge
us about it,
but we gave those moments and
we all sat around for her own
panoramic life review of all
the awesome moments in her life.
>> BRINKLEY: And that's
why she passed in peace.
>> LISA: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: So here's
what we're doing, Lisa.
We're not talking about some
probability of something.
We're talking about the
reality of the art form of that
if you're breathing
you're leaving.
And the number one cause of
death in America is birth.
OK?
>> LISA: Yes.
>> BRINKLEY: And what is the
driver that leads toward that?
Stress.
Stress, hypertension,
fear of the unknown,
fear of a terrorist,
fear of your banker,
fear of everything except
Gaiam TV and you and me.
>> LISA: Yeah.
>> BRINKLEY: What?
>> LISA: You're awesome.
Dannion, thank you.
>> BRINKLEY: Thank you.
>> LISA: Thank you
for everything you do
and everything you are to us
and the inspiration that you
provide for us.
Thank you so much.
>> BRINKLEY: And
listen, rock on, sister.
>> LISA: I love this guy.
And watch this replay
again and again.
Go to gaiamtv.com
to watch the replay.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[LAUGHS]